Welcome back everyone in this lecture.
We're going to talk about the shift and can shift tracking algorithms some of the most basic tracking
methods are mean shift in camp shift.
I'm first going to describe the general means shift algorithm without the context that it is tracking.
And then we'll learn how to actually apply it for image trucking.
Afterwards we'll learn how to extend the mishit algorithm into camp shift or continuously adaptive made
shift.
It's just an extension of the mishit algorithm that allows us to resize our retarget window.
So first let's talk about the mean shift algorithm.
What it actually is.
Imagine that we have a set of points and we wanted to assign them into clusters.
So here I have an initial set of data points plotted on some x and y axes.
What it will do is for each of my data points I'm actually going to take them and stack a red point
and then a Bluepoint.
And right now I can actually see the red points.
If you look really closely there's a very faint red outline for all these blue points.
That's what I've done is taken all my data points for x and y.
And then I plotted a red dot and then it blew up right on top of that red dot.
So to begin the process of mishit algorithm what we do is we calculate the direction to the closest
cluster centroid by the terminating where most of the points nearby are at essentially calculating a
weighted mean so each iteration each of the blue points are going to move closer to where most of the
points are at which should then lead to our cluster sensors.
The red and blue data points are right now overlapped completely.
The first iteration before the mishit algorithm actually starts.
So we're going to have some red points underneath each of these blue points.
And then I want to start my first iteration.
So at the end of iteration 1 all the blue points in that moving towards the clusters here it appears
that there is either going to be four or three clusters.
We can see at the bottom two clusters all the blue points a sort of shift towards that centroid.
Essentially calculating a to mean and then at the top we can see that we have kind of two more or less
distinct groups of blue points and we don't know yet if they're going to converge into one or split
off left and right so happens as we go through another iteration.
It appears that the bottom clusters have actually begun to reach convergence and then mishit found three
clusters already by the third iteration and then after subsequent iterations the cluster means have
stopped moving.
So then we decide they've actually already located our center clusters so all the clusters have converged
and there's no more movement.
And so we've identified three clusters here we have two bottom clusters and then one on top.
Now something I want to point out is when you're using the means shift algorithm is that it will always
be able to detect what may be a more reasonable number of clusters.
For example us as humans if we take a look at those clusters it may have been more reasonable to test
for clusters in the previous situation.
So here you may have said that there's actually two clusters on top.
It's sort of just one larger cluster with the mishit outgroup.
You don't actually get to say beforehand how many clusters there should be the mishit algorithm will
calculate on its own.
What it thinks the cluster should be based off those weighted means that it's calculating and moving
towards the center of there's a highly related algorithm called K means which you may have heard of
before.
If you've taken a machine learning class and that's a very similar algorithm but you do get to actually
choose the number of clusters or the k value.
But for mishit algorithm it just is going to the number of clusters for you.
So that's why you may not get the most reasonable number of clusters.
Now let's continue using this idea of the mishit algorithm and how we can actually then apply it to
OB to track what we can do.
Is that mean shift can be given a target to track and what it will do is going to Kukla color histogram
of the target area and then keep sliding the tracking window to the closest match.
Also known as the cluster center.
So let's use Erlass view in animation on this and kind of explain what's going on.
So the idea here is that we start off with an actual image and then we're going to calculate the color
histogram of the target and then keep sliding the target window to the closest match.
So here we can see the means shift iterations and we're slowly updating the window location based off
our mean calculation.
So we're given an initial target.
We calculate that color histogram and then we're going to begin shifting our window to where we see
the center of that color histogram moving.
So right now this target is basically not moving which is set in the initial window to then track the
actual face based off the makeshifts but you can imagine that if this face started moving around the
image it would eventually keep iterating use the mean shift and then converge to a shifted window.
Now keep in mind just using mynt shift will actually change the window size as the target moves away
or towards the camera.
We can use the cam shift version of Mean shift or the continuously adapted means shift in order to update
the size of the window.
Let's take a look at how this one works.
Camp shift starts the way as before we first the plumbing shift and then perform the iterations of means
shift and eventually once means shift x actually converges after a few iterations we are going to calculate
a new region of interest and we do that by updating the size of the actual region of interest.
And then we also calculate the orientation of the best fitting ellipse to the new region of interest.
Again it goes and applies means shift within you scaled a search window in previous window location
and this process is continued until some sort of required accuracy is met.
Now keep in mind all this happens for us behind the scenes using open NCB Let's go explore all of these
ideas in Python with open Suvi.
We'll see you at the next lecture.